ACD-416 (#6)
Actindo-AG/Documentation: RetailSuiteAccounting/Integration/02_ManageTaxKeys.md

[!!Fakturierung](RetailSuiteFaktBase)  
[!!Taxes](Taxes)  

> [!!User Interface tax keys](../UserInterface/02c_TaxKeys.md)  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[!!User Interface Tax keys](../UserInterface/02c_TaxKeys.md)  
```

# Manage the tax keys

> Tax keys are a list of values, each of them linked to a specific tax rate. They are essential for the automatic tax functions, for example the automatic VAT tax booking. Every existing tax rate in the different accounts is assigned a tax key. The *Invoicing* module extracts data on the applicable tax rate from the tax keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tax keys are a list of values, each of them linked to a specific tax rate. They are essential for the automatic tax functions, for example the automatic VAT tax booking. A tax key is assigned to each existing tax rate in the different accounts. The *Invoicing* module extracts data on the applicable tax rate from the tax keys.
```

## Create a tax key

You can create a tax key that is not yet available in the list.

#### Prerequisites

- The accounting is configured via the configuration wizard, see [Run the accounting wizard](./01_RunAccountingWizard.md).
- A valid fiscal year is created, see [Create a fiscal year](./04_ManageFiscalYear.md#create-a-fiscal-year).

#### Procedure

*Accounting > Select the fiscal year > Settings > Tab TAX KEYS*

![Create a tax key](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/TaxKeys/CreateTaxKey.png "[Create a tax key]")

1. Enter an available tax key in the *Key* field.

    > [Info] Check which tax keys are still available by navigating through the list. Make sure that the entry fields are cleared before entering any data. If they are not, click the [CLEAR] button.

> 2. Enter a description for the tax key in the *Description* field, for example VAT 19%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter a description for the tax key in the *Description* field, for example **VAT 19%**.
```

> 3. Enter a validity time frame for the tax key in the *Valid from - to* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter a validity time frame for the tax key in the *Valid from* and *to* fields.
```

> 4.  Click the *Tax type* drop-down list and select the appropriate option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.  Click the *Tax type* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. The following options are displayed:
```

      - **( )Not specified**
      - **(I)Input tax**
      - **(V)VAT**
      - **(IV)Input tax and VAT**

5. Enter the appropriate data in the *Percent / Factor* field.

    > [Info] Companies selling products to foreign EU countries must be aware of the applicable VAT in the shipping country. It is recommended to check the validity of the tax rate in the corresponding country and update it accordingly in this field.

6. Enter the appropriate account(s) in the *Account (VAT/input tax/VAT not due)* field.

7. Click the *VAT needed* drop-down list and select the appropriate option (**No/Yes**).

> 8. Click the *Country* drop-down list and select the appropriate EU country or the option **No EU tax key**.

Reviewer: appropriate finde ich immer schwierig als Angabe - gerade bei den Drop-Down lists sollten wir erklären, in welchem Fall was gewählt wird. Bei den Freitextfelder muss konkret stehen, was da rein soll, also Prozentsatz oder Faktor wovon und welches Konto.

9. Click the [SAVE & NEW] button.  
The new tax key has been created.

>     > [Info] If you inadvertently choose a tax key number that is already assigned, an error message will be displayed. Choose a different number to save your newly created tax key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > [Info] If you try to save a tax key number that is already assigned, an error message will be displayed. Select a different number to save the new tax key.
```

## Edit a tax key

You can edit an available tax key, for example if a tax rate needs to be updated.

#### Prerequisites

- The accounting is configured via the configuration wizard, see [Run the accounting wizard](./01_RunAccountingWizard.md).
- A valid fiscal year is created, see [Create a fiscal year](./04_ManageFiscalYear.md#create-a-fiscal-year).

#### Procedure

*Accounting > Select the fiscal year > Settings > Tab TAX KEYS*

![Edit a tax key](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/TaxKeys/EditTaxKey.png "[Edit a tax key]")

> 1. Click on the existing tax key to be edited.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the tax key to be edited.   
```

> The existing data for the selected tax key are displayed in the corresponding fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data for the selected tax key are displayed in the corresponding fields.
```

>     > [Warning] Be aware that any changes made to an existing tax key will overwrite the preset values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > [Info] Be aware that any changes made to an existing tax key will overwrite the preset values.
```

2. Edit the fields as appropriate.

3. Click the [SAVE] button.   
The tax key has been edited. The edited tax key is displayed in the list.

## Delete a tax key

You can delete an existing tax key, for example if it is no longer applicable.

#### Prerequisites

- The accounting is configured via the configuration wizard, see [Run the accounting wizard](./01_RunAccountingWizard.md).
- A valid fiscal year is created, see [Create a fiscal year](./04_ManageFiscalYear.md#create-a-fiscal-year).

#### Procedure

*Accounting > Select the fiscal year > Settings > Tab TAX KEYS*

![Delete a tax key](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/TaxKeys/DeleteTaxKey.png "[Delete a tax key]")

1. Select the tax key to be deleted.

>   > [Warning] Be aware that the existing tax key will be deleted permanently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > [Warning] Be aware that the selected tax key will be deleted permanently.
```
Warning erst unter Schritt 2

2. Click the [DELETE] button.  

> The selected tax key will be deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The selected tax key is deleted.
```

#### Prerequisites

A fiscal year has been selected, see [Select the fiscal year](../Operation/01_SelectFiscalYear.md).

#### Procedure

*Accounting > Settings > Tab TAX KEYS*

![Create a tax key](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/TaxKeys/CreateTaxKey.png "[Create a tax key]")

1. Enter an available tax key in the *Key* field.

  > [Info] Check which tax keys are still available by navigating through the list. Make sure that the input fields are cleared before entering any data. If they are not, click the [CLEAR] button.

2. Enter a description for the tax key in the *Description* field, for example **VAT 19%**.

3. Enter a validity start and end date for the tax key in the *Valid from* and *to* fields.

4. Click the *Tax type* drop-down list and select the appropriate option. The following options are available:

    - **( )Not specified**
    - **(I)Input tax**
    - **(V)VAT**
    - **(IV)Input tax and VAT**

5. Enter the applicable tax rate and factor in the *Percent* and *Factor* fields. Click the *+/-* drop-down list to select *+* or *-* if the posting is a net or a gross amount respectively.

>   > [Info] Companies selling products to foreign EU countries must be aware of the applicable VAT in the shipping country. It is recommended to check the validity of the tax rate in the corresponding country and update it accordingly in this field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  > [Info] Companies selling products to foreign EU countries must be aware of the applicable VAT in the shipping country. It is recommended to check the validity of the tax rate in the corresponding country and update it accordingly in this field. If you are not sure about the tax-related consequences of your different foreign business transactions please consult your tax advisor.
```

    > [Note] Be aware that any changes made to a tax key will overwrite the preset values.

2. Edit the fields as appropriate.  

  > [Info] Tax keys are configured during the initial installation process and are not automatically updated. Therefore, it is recommended to check the validity of the tax rate in the corresponding country and update it accordingly in this field if necessary.

3. Click the [SAVE] button.   
A small pop-up window confirms that the edited tax key has been saved. The edited tax key is displayed in the list.

  ![Saved](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/TaxKeys/Saved.png "[Saved]")

## Delete a tax key

You can delete a tax key, for example if it is no longer applicable.

#### Prerequisites

- A fiscal year has been selected, see [Select the fiscal year](../Operation/01_SelectFiscalYear.md).

#### Procedure

*Accounting > Settings > Tab TAX KEYS*

![Delete a tax key](../../Assets/Screenshots/RetailSuiteAccounting/Settings/TaxKeys/EditTaxKey.png "[Delete a tax key]")

1. Select the tax key to be deleted.  
The data for the selected tax key are displayed in the corresponding fields at the bottom.  

>   > [Note] Be aware that the tax key will be deleted permanently.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  > [Note] Be aware that the tax key will be deleted permanently. Therefore the option of entering an end date in the __valid from to_ might_ be a better alternative. 
```
